DEVX-578: Update cp-demo for updated Confluent Control Center version 5.3.0 (#112)
confluentinc/cp-demo: docs/index.rst

Playbook
========

Brokers 
-------

> 1. Select the cluster called "Kafka Raleigh".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the cluster named "Kafka Raleigh".
```

   .. figure:: images/cluster_raleigh.png

2. Click on "Brokers".

3. View the status of the Brokers in the cluster, including:

>    - Produce metrics

Reviewer 2: Maybe remove in favor of single line suggested below?
```suggestion
```

>    - Consume metrics

Reviewer 2: Would Production and Consumption be better here (also matches UI)?
```suggestion
   - Production and Consumption metrics
```

   - Broker uptime
   - Partitions: online, under replicated, total replicas, out of sync replicas
   - Disk utilization
   - System: network pool usage, request pool usage

   .. figure:: images/landing_page.png

Topics
------

> 1. |c3| has a useful interface to manage topics in a Kafka cluster. Click on "Topics".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. |c3| has a useful interface to manage topics in a Kafka cluster. In the navigation bar, click **Topics**.
```

> 2. Scroll down to and click on the topic `wikipedia.parsed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Scroll down and click on the topic ``wikipedia.parsed``.
```

      .. figure:: images/topic_list_wikipedia.png
         :alt: image

3. View an overview of this topic:

   - Throughput

>    - Partitions: under replicated, out of sync replicas

Reviewer 2: Just wording suggestions, feel free to ignore any of these you don't agree with...
```suggestion
   - Partition replication status
```

   .. figure:: images/topic_actions.png
      :alt: image

4. View which brokers are leaders for which partitions and where all partitions reside.

   .. figure:: images/topic_info.png
      :alt: image

5. Inspect messages for this topic, in real-time.

   .. figure:: images/topic_inspect.png
      :alt: image

> 6. View the schema for this topic. For `wikipedia.parsed`, the topic value is using a Schema registered with |sr| (the topic key is just a string).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. View the schema for this topic. For ``wikipedia.parsed``, the topic value is using a Schema registered with |sr| (the topic key is just a string).
```

   .. figure:: images/topic_schema.png
      :alt: image

7. View configuration settings for this topic.

   .. figure:: images/topic_settings.png
      :alt: image

> 8. Click the ``+ Add a topic`` button on the top right to create a new topic in your Kafka cluster. You can also view and edit settings of Kafka topics in the cluster. Read more on |c3| `topic management <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/docs/topics.html>`__.

Reviewer 2: User might need a quick direction to return to the all topics view to see the Add a topic button.

```suggestion
8. Return to the ``All topics`` view and click the ``+ Add a topic`` button on the top right to create a new topic in your Kafka cluster. You can also view and edit settings of Kafka topics in the cluster. Read more on |c3| `topic management <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/docs/topics.html>`__.
```

Author: Ack

> 8. Click the ``+ Add a topic`` button on the top right to create a new topic in your Kafka cluster. You can also view and edit settings of Kafka topics in the cluster. Read more on |c3| `topic management <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/docs/topics.html>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Click the **+ Add a topic** button on the top right to create a new topic in your Kafka cluster. You can also view and edit settings of Kafka topics in the cluster. Read more on |c3| `topic management <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/docs/topics.html>`__.
```

      .. figure:: images/create_topic.png
         :alt: image

> 9. Dataflow: you can derive which producers are writing to which topics and which consumers are reading from which topics. When Confluent Monitoring Interceptors are configured on Kafka clients, they write metadata to a topic called ``_confluent-monitoring``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Dataflow: you can derive which producers are writing to which topics and which consumers are reading from which topics. When Confluent Monitoring Interceptors are configured on Kafka clients, they write metadata to a topic named ``_confluent-monitoring``.
```

        producers
          connect-worker-producer

Connect
-------

1. |c3| uses the Kafka Connect API to manage multiple `connect clusters <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/docs/connect.html>`__.  Click on "Connect".

> 2. Select `connect-default`, the name of the cluster of Connect workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select ``connect-default``, the name of the cluster of |kconnect| workers.
```

   .. figure:: images/connect_default.png

3. Verify the connectors running in this demo:

   - source connector ``wikipedia-irc``
   - source connector ``replicate-topic``
   - sink connector ``elasticsearch-ksql`` consuming from the Kafka topic ``WIKIPEDIABOT``

   .. figure:: images/connector_list.png

> 4. Click any connector view or modify any details of the connector configuration and custom transforms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click any connector name to view or modify any details of the connector configuration and custom transforms.
```

   .. figure:: images/connect_replicator_settings.png

.. _ksql-demo-3:

KSQL
----

> 1. In this demo, KSQL is authenticated and authorized to connect to the secured Kafka cluster, and it is already running queries as defined in the `KSQL command file <https://github.com/confluentinc/cp-demo/blob/master/scripts/ksql/ksqlcommands>`__.  Click on "KSQL".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this demo, KSQL is authenticated and authorized to connect to the secured Kafka cluster, and it is already running queries as defined in the `KSQL command file <https://github.com/confluentinc/cp-demo/blob/master/scripts/ksql/ksqlcommands>`__.

1. In the navigation bar, click **KSQL**.
```

> 2. From the list of KSQL applications, select "KSQL".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. From the list of KSQL applications, select ``KSQL``.
```

   .. figure:: images/ksql_link.png
      :alt: image

3. Alternatively, run KSQL CLI to get to the KSQL CLI prompt.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

        docker-compose exec ksql-cli ksql http://ksql-server:8088

4. View the existing KSQL streams. (If you are using the KSQL CLI, at the ``ksql>`` prompt type ``SHOW STREAMS;``).

   .. figure:: images/ksql_streams_list.png
      :alt: image

5. Describe the schema (fields or columns) and source and sink of an existing KSQL stream. Click on ``WIKIPEDIA``.

   .. figure:: images/wikipedia_describe.png
      :alt: image

6. View the existing KSQL tables. (If you are using the KSQL CLI, at the ``ksql>`` prompt type ``SHOW TABLES;``).

   .. figure:: images/ksql_tables_list.png
      :alt: image

7. View the existing KSQL queries, which are continuously running. (If you are using the KSQL CLI, at the ``ksql>`` prompt type ``SHOW QUERIES;``).

   .. figure:: images/ksql_queries_list.png
      :alt: image

> 8. View messages from different KSQL streams and tables. Right click on your stream of choice, select ``Query`` which takes you to the Query Editor with a pre-populated query such as ``select * from WIKIPEDIA;`` and it will show results for newly arriving data.

Reviewer 2: Right clicking on my browser (Firefox 68.0.1) doesn't work (it shows the firefox context menu).  Instead, I can see these options by clicking the elipse (`...`) button C3 presents me.

Author: @rspurgeon good catch.  This behavior has probably changed in 5.3.0, so now it's just a "normal" click.  Updated.

> 8. View messages from different KSQL streams and tables. Right click on your stream of choice, select ``Query`` which takes you to the Query Editor with a pre-populated query such as ``select * from WIKIPEDIA;`` and it will show results for newly arriving data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. View messages from different KSQL streams and tables. Right-click on your stream of choice and select **Query** to open the Query Editor. The editor shows a pre-populated query, like ``select * from WIKIPEDIA;``, and it shows results for newly arriving data.
```

   .. figure:: images/ksql_query_topic.png
      :alt: image

> 9. View the configured KSQL server properties set in the docker-compose.yml file. In the query editor, type ``SHOW PROPERTIES;`` and then click on the ``Run query`` button.

Reviewer 2: I stumbled here slightly as reading the text as we've put the user inside the Editor query view for the `WIKIPEDIA` stream.   So to make the work you have to click a few buttons to get back to the "main" KSQL editor view.   Something like this might be more explicit?
```suggestion
9. From the main `KSQL Editor` view, you can see the configured KSQL server properties by entering the query, ``SHOW PROPERTIES;`` and then clicking the ``Run`` button.   You can cross check these properties with the `docker-compose.yml` file.
```

Reviewer: Suggest:

9. Click **KSQL Editor** and run the ``SHOW PROPERTIES;`` statement. You can see the configured KSQL server properties and check these values with the ``docker-compose.yml`` file.

Author: Ack

      ...

Consumers
---------

> 1. |c3| enables you to monitor consumer lag and throughput performance. Consumer lag is the topic's high water mark (latest offset for the topic that has been written) minus the current consumer offset (latest offset read for that topic by that consumer group). Keep in mind topic write rate and consumer group read rate when considering what the significance of how big is the consumer lag. Click on "Consumers".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. |c3| enables you to monitor consumer lag and throughput performance. Consumer lag is the topic's high water mark (latest offset for the topic that has been written) minus the current consumer offset (latest offset read for that topic by that consumer group). Keep in mind the topic's write rate and consumer group's read rate when you consider the significance the consumer lag's size. Click on "Consumers".
```

> 2. Consumer lag is available on a per `consumer basis <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/consumers.html#view-consumer-lag-details-for-a-consumer-group>`__, including embedded consumers in sink connectors (e.g., ``connect-replicator`` and ``connect-elasticsearch-ksql``), KSQL queries (e.g., consumer groups whose names start with ``_confluent-ksql-default_query_``), console consumers (e.g., ``WIKIPEDIANOBOT-consumer``), etc.  Consumer lag is also available on a per `topic basis <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/topics/view.html#view-consumer-lag-for-a-topic>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Consumer lag is available on a per `consumer basis <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/consumers.html#view-consumer-lag-details-for-a-consumer-group>`__, including embedded consumers in sink connectors (e.g., ``connect-replicator`` and ``connect-elasticsearch-ksql``), KSQL queries (e.g., consumer groups whose names start with ``_confluent-ksql-default_query_``), console consumers (e.g., ``WIKIPEDIANOBOT-consumer``), etc.  Consumer lag is also available on a `per-topic basis <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/topics/view.html#view-consumer-lag-for-a-topic>`__.
```

   .. figure:: images/consumer_group_list.png
      :alt: image

3. View consumer lag for the persistent KSQL "Create Stream As Select" query ``CSAS_WIKIPEDIABOT``, which is displayed as ``_confluent-ksql-default_query_CSAS_WIKIPEDIABOT_0`` in the consumer group list.

   .. figure:: images/ksql_query_CSAS_WIKIPEDIABOT_consumer_lag.png
      :alt: image

4. With `Confluent Monitoring Interceptors <https://docs.confluent.io/current/control-center/installation/clients.html>`__, you may also view additional metrics related to production and consumption of messages, including:

   - Throughput
   - Failed consume requests
   - Percent messages consumed
   - End to end latency

5. View consumption metrics for the persistent KSQL "Create Stream As Select" query ``CSAS_WIKIPEDIABOT``, which is displayed as ``_confluent-ksql-default_query_CSAS_WIKIPEDIABOT_0`` in the consumer group list.

   .. figure:: images/ksql_query_CSAS_WIKIPEDIABOT_consumption.png
      :alt: image

> 6. Control Center shows which consumers in a consumer group are consuming from which partitions and on which brokers those partitions reside.  Control Center updates as consumer rebalances occur in a consumer group.  Start consuming from topic ``wikipedia.parsed`` with a new consumer group ``app`` with one consumer ``consumer_app_1``. It will run in the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. |c3| shows which consumers in a consumer group are consuming from which partitions and on which brokers those partitions reside.  |c3| updates as consumer rebalances occur in a consumer group.  Start consuming from topic ``wikipedia.parsed`` with a new consumer group ``app`` with one consumer ``consumer_app_1``. It runs in the background.
```

   .. sourcecode:: bash

          ./scripts/app/start_consumer_app.sh 1

7. Let this consumer group run for 2 minutes until |c3|
   shows the consumer group ``app`` with steady consumption.
   This consumer group ``app`` has a single consumer ``consumer_app_1`` consuming all of the partitions in the topic ``wikipedia.parsed``. 

   .. figure:: images/consumer_start_one.png
      :alt: image

8. Add a second consumer ``consumer_app_2`` to the existing consumer
   group ``app``.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

          ./scripts/app/start_consumer_app.sh 2

9. Let this consumer group run for 2 minutes until |c3|
   shows the consumer group ``app`` with steady consumption.
   Notice that the consumers ``consumer_app_1`` and ``consumer_app_2``
   now share consumption of the partitions in the topic
   ``wikipedia.parsed``. 

>    .. figure:: images/consumer_start_two.png

Reviewer 2: Very clear demo on Consumer Group Lag @ybyzek !  Great features in C3 as well!

Author: Cool!

      :alt: image

> 10. Click on "System heath" and then a line in "Request latency".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Click "System health" and then a line in "Request latency".
```

earlier offset, thereby forcing the consumer group to reconsume messages
it has previously read.

.. note:: Data Streams view is enabled by setting `confluent.controlcenter.deprecated.views.enable=true`

1. Click on ``Data streams``, and ``View Details`` for the consumer
   group ``app``.

   .. figure:: images/data_streams_app.png
      :alt: image

2. Scroll down to verify there are two consumers ``consumer_app_1`` and
   ``consumer_app_2`` that were created in an earlier section. If these
   two consumers are not running and were never started, start them as
   described in the section `Consumers <#consumers>`__.

>    Let this consumer group run for 2 minutes until Control Center stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Let this consumer group run for two minutes, until |c3| stream
```

offset of the consumer group ``app`` to the latest offset, thereby
skipping messages that will never be read.

.. note:: Data Streams view is enabled by setting `confluent.controlcenter.deprecated.views.enable=true`

> 1. Click on ``Data streams``, and ``View Details`` for the consumer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on **Data streams**, and **View Details** for the consumer
```

   group ``app``.

   .. figure:: images/data_streams_app.png
      :alt: image

2. Scroll down to verify there are two consumers ``consumer_app_1`` and
   ``consumer_app_2`` that were created in an earlier section. If these
   two consumers are not running and were never started, start them as
   described in the section `Consumers <#consumers>`__.

>    Let this consumer group run for 2 minutes until Control Center stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Let this consumer group run for two minutes, until |c3| stream
```

       wikipedia.parsed 1         8601
       wikipedia.parsed 0         15135 

6. Restart consuming from topic ``wikipedia.parsed`` with the consumer
   group ``app`` with two consumers.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

          ./scripts/app/start_consumer_app.sh 1
          ./scripts/app/start_consumer_app.sh 2

> 7. Let this consumer group run for 2 minutes until Control Center stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Let this consumer group run for two minutes, until |c3| stream
```

          docker-compose start kafka2

> 5. After about a minute, observe the Broker summary in Confluent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After about a minute, observe the Broker summary in |c3|.
```

>    Control Center. The broker count has recovered to 2, and the topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The broker count has recovered to 2, and the topic
```

   partitions are back to reporting no under replicated partitions.

   .. figure:: images/broker_down_steady.png
      :alt: image

> 6. Click on the broker count ``2`` inside the "Broker uptime" box to view when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click on the broker count ``2`` inside the "Broker uptime" box to view when
```
```suggestion
6. Click on the broker count ``2`` inside the **Broker uptime** panel to view when
```

   ``Under Replicated Partitions`` happened and caused an alert when you
   stopped broker 2.

   .. figure:: images/alerts_triggers_under_replication_partitions.png
      :alt: image

3. You can also trigger the ``Consumption Difference`` trigger. In the
   Kafka Connect -> Sinks screen, edit the running Elasticsearch sink
   connector.

> 4. In the Connect view, pause the Elasticsearch sink connector in Settings by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Connect** view, pause the Elasticsearch sink connector in Settings by
```

clusters are the same. As with the rest of the components in the
solution, Confluent Replicator is also configured with security.

> 1. **Consumers**: monitor throughput and latency of Confluent Replicator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Consumers**: monitor throughput and latency of |crep-full|.
```

>    Replicator is a Kafka Connect source connector and has a corresponding consumer group ``connect-replicator``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |crep| is a |kconnect-long| source connector and has a corresponding consumer group, named ``connect-replicator``.
```

   .. figure:: images/replicator_consumer_group_list.png
      :alt: image

2. View Replicator Consumer Lag.

   .. figure:: images/replicator_consumer_lag.png
      :alt: image

3. View Replicator Consumption metrics.

   .. figure:: images/replicator_consumption.png
      :alt: image

4. **Topics**: scroll down to view the topics called

>    ``wikipedia.parsed`` (Replicator is consuming data from this topic)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``wikipedia.parsed`` (|crep| is consuming data from this topic)
```

>    and ``wikipedia.parsed.replica`` (Replicator automatically created this topic and is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and ``wikipedia.parsed.replica`` (|crep| automatically created this topic and is
```

   .. figure:: images/replicator_topic_info.png

> 5. **MANAGEMENT –> Kafka Connect**: pause the Replicator connector in Settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **MANAGEMENT –> Kafka Connect**: pause the |crep| connector in **Settings**
```

       "schema": "{\"type\":\"record\",\"name\":\"user\",\"fields\":[{\"name\":\"username\",\"type\":\"string\"},{\"name\":\"userid\",\"type\":\"long\"}]}"
     }

Confluent REST Proxy
--------------------

The `Confluent REST Proxy <https://docs.confluent.io/current/kafka-rest/docs/index.html>`__  is running for optional client access.

> 1. Use the REST Proxy, which is listening for HTTPS on port 8086, to produce a message to the topic ``users``, referencing schema id ``6``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the |crest|, which is listening for HTTPS on port 8086, to produce a message to the topic ``users``, referencing schema id ``6``.
```

   .. sourcecode:: bash

       docker-compose exec restproxy curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.avro.v2+json" -H "Accept: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" --cert /etc/kafka/secrets/restproxy.certificate.pem --key /etc/kafka/secrets/restproxy.key --tlsv1.2 --cacert /etc/kafka/secrets/snakeoil-ca-1.crt --data '{"value_schema_id": 6, "records": [{"value": {"user":{"userid": 1, "username": "Bunny Smith"}}}]}' https://restproxy:8086/topics/users

     {"offsets":[{"partition":1,"offset":0,"error_code":null,"error":null}],"key_schema_id":null,"value_schema_id":6}

> 2. Create consumer instance my_avro_consumer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create consumer instance ``my_avro_consumer``.
```

   .. sourcecode:: bash

       docker-compose exec restproxy curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" --cert /etc/kafka/secrets/restproxy.certificate.pem --key /etc/kafka/secrets/restproxy.key --tlsv1.2 --cacert /etc/kafka/secrets/snakeoil-ca-1.crt --data '{"name": "my_consumer_instance", "format": "avro", "auto.offset.reset": "earliest"}' https://restproxy:8086/consumers/my_avro_consumer

> 3. Subscribe my_avro_consumer to the `users` topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Subscribe my_``avro_consumer`` to the `users` topic
```

4. Get messages for my_avro_consumer subscriptions

   .. sourcecode:: bash

       # Note: Issue this command twice due to https://github.com/confluentinc/kafka-rest/issues/432
       docker-compose exec restproxy curl -X GET -H "Accept: application/vnd.kafka.avro.v2+json" --cert /etc/kafka/secrets/restproxy.certificate.pem --key /etc/kafka/secrets/restproxy.key --tlsv1.2 --cacert /etc/kafka/secrets/snakeoil-ca-1.crt https://restproxy:8086/consumers/my_avro_consumer/instances/my_consumer_instance/records
       docker-compose exec restproxy curl -X GET -H "Accept: application/vnd.kafka.avro.v2+json" --cert /etc/kafka/secrets/restproxy.certificate.pem --key /etc/kafka/secrets/restproxy.key --tlsv1.2 --cacert /etc/kafka/secrets/snakeoil-ca-1.crt https://restproxy:8086/consumers/my_avro_consumer/instances/my_consumer_instance/records

> 5. Delete the consumer instance my_avro_consumer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Delete the consumer instance ``my_avro_consumer``.
```
